README.md, before:

# EcoGS
_**by Samer Alban Kadib, Georgios Marinos, Johannes Zimmermann, Silvio Waschina, and Christoph Kaleta**_

A suite to predict the ecological relationships between gapseq models by comparing the achieved growth when the models are alone and the achieved growth when the models are part of a community model.

|Species 1|Species 2|Relation|
|-----|-----|-----|
|0|0|Neutralism|
|0|1|Commensalism|
|0|-1|Amensalism|
|1|1|Mutualism|
|1|-1|Parasitism|
|-1|-1|Competition|

0: no growth change, 1: increase of growth, 2: decrease of growth

## Quick start
To run the suite, run the following functions:

1. `metabolic_interactions_with_MicrobiomeGS2()` to simulate growth of the models
2. `make_eco_mat` to calculate the ecological matrix and the matrix of growth change for all models
3. `plot_relations` to plot the number of pairs in each type of ecological relations
4. `relation_per_sample` to calculate the prediction of the frequency of ecological relationship between pairs of co-grown bacteria in each sample. It requires a user imported OTU table.

## Installation
It requires the following packages:

1. sybil
2. cplexAPI
3. MicrobiomeGS2
4. parallel
5. doParallel
6. foreach
7. graphics
8. utils

## References and acknowlegments
This research was supported in part through high-performance computing resources available at the Kiel University Computing Centre.

## Citation
Alban Kadib, Marinos _et al._, **Genome–scale metabolic models predict associations among human dietary compounds and microbial ecological interactions**, in preparation

Commit message:

adapt the DESCRIPTION file based on the feedback  @Waschina and the DESCRIPTION file of MicrobiomeGS2. Link for installation instructions added in the README.md

README.md, after:

# EcoGS
_**by Samer Alban Kadib, Georgios Marinos, Johannes Zimmermann, Silvio Waschina, and Christoph Kaleta**_

A suite to predict the ecological relationships between gapseq models by comparing the achieved growth when the models are alone and the achieved growth when the models are part of a community model.

|Species 1|Species 2|Relation|
|-----|-----|-----|
|0|0|Neutralism|
|0|1|Commensalism|
|0|-1|Amensalism|
|1|1|Mutualism|
|1|-1|Parasitism|
|-1|-1|Competition|

0: no growth change, 1: increase of growth, 2: decrease of growth

## Quick start
To run the suite, run the following functions:

1. `metabolic_interactions_with_MicrobiomeGS2()` to simulate growth of the models
2. `make_eco_mat` to calculate the ecological matrix and the matrix of growth change for all models
3. `plot_relations` to plot the number of pairs in each type of ecological relations
4. `relation_per_sample` to calculate the prediction of the frequency of ecological relationship between pairs of co-grown bacteria in each sample. It requires a user imported OTU table.

## Installation
It requires the following packages:

1. sybil
2. cplexAPI
3. MicrobiomeGS2
4. parallel
5. doParallel
6. foreach
7. graphics
8. utils

For installing MicrobiomeGS2 and cplexAPI please follow the instructions here: https://github.com/Waschina/MicrobiomeGS2/tree/main

## References and acknowlegments
This research was supported in part through high-performance computing resources available at the Kiel University Computing Centre.

## Citation
Alban Kadib, Marinos _et al._, **Genome–scale metabolic models predict associations among human dietary compounds and microbial ecological interactions**, in preparation
